 in 2018, and actually before that just codified in 2018. So I think that is a real accelerant potentially for common ways of looking at AI safety and AI regulation, which is critical because one of the biggest risks that we have is fragmentary regulatory policies across the world. Particularly given that AI is a global technology and technology companies are looking to deploy AI globally on behalf of their customers. And speaking of those customers, I want to pivot from the discussion of policy and regulation to talk about some of the exciting technology roadmap, product roadmap from Google that we have to look forward to. Google made some big announcements at IO, your annual developer conference, about new features and developments for AI products. So not to ask you to pick a favorite from among all that you're working on, but what are the, from your perspective, some of the more exciting updates that Google announced this year in regard to AI products and how society is going to benefit and your customers are going to benefit from what we have to look forward to? Absolutely. I think there's so much exciting work going on inside of Google. I work with dozens of teams across Google product areas and I see amazing opportunities and launches that are happening with generative AI pretty much every day at this point. Some of my favorites from this year at IO are Pathways Language Model 2, Palm 2, really new breakthrough capabilities across a wide variety of tasks, much more generalizable language models. It's really awesome in my opinion because whereas with Palm 1 and other very powerful frontier models, those weren't something that were available to the external public. It wasn't easy to get your hands on this advanced technology. Now anybody can go and use Vertex and get $300 of free Google Cloud credit and try out some of the most powerful models in the world. And we have new developer-focused tools and things like that that are amazing. But I think fundamentally my favorite and most exciting launches are actually around Duet AI, which is our workspace product. I've long dreamed of email that can help me write better, can help me understand faster because I work on a lot of email. So I think things that will help us do better documents, spreadsheets, email, they're just so useful for something that most of us do a hundred times a day. Okay, so that's what's coming up from Google. And I think those are all exciting developments. And I too look forward to better email because I feel like I spend my day on email as well. But I want to talk more broadly about your excitement, which is palpable, about what AI is going to mean for the future. What sectors or industries do you think have the greatest potential to benefit from advanced AI technologies? There's so much potential across so many verticals. It's hard to pick just a few favorites, but I'm going to go with some of the big ones. I'm really excited about science and medicine. We have MedPalm, which is very, very useful for helping doctors understand conditions to better treatment plans and a wide variety of other applications. Obviously not something that we need to roll out right now, but it shows huge promise for improving health outcomes and medical outcomes for humanity. We have things like AlphaFold, right, and protein folding function prediction research, which will completely revolutionize things like drug discovery. So really excited about a bunch of the science and medicine kinds of approaches. But I think there's also the critical threat of climate change that hangs over many of the things that we do in technology and in the modern world. And so I'm really excited about the potential of a lot of those areas of research as well. You might have seen relatively recently we published some work around contrails for airlines. And this is really unbelievably interesting work that I was very surprised the very first time that I learned about this a couple of years ago. Essentially, when planes go through the sky and they leave contrails, those white clouds that you see behind airplanes, those actually capture crystals of carbon dioxide, which causes humongous amounts of greenhouse gas emissions and carbon emission impact from the airline industry. And we built models that helped to mitigate that and actually got buy in from across a wide variety of household name airlines, leading to like truly significant reductions in carbon output for humanity. Things like that are just genuinely unbelievable, in my opinion. So science, medicine, climate, I think, aside from all the tech products that are clearly in everybody's viewport right now, I think those are the ones that are really going to revolutionize what it means to be able to build a healthier, better world. A lot of really exciting developments there. And one other area I wanted to ask you about is broader societal impacts. We hear a lot about how AI is going to provide a positive impact on society or governance, I guess is the best way to phrase it. Can you share any thoughts there about AI? I think there are some really great examples that even predate this generation of AI, but are getting even better. I love this concept of universal language and universal translation. We learned with Palm One that it was a monolingual learner, that it sort of learned a lot of languages, even with very sparse coverage of that language. And so making it so people who otherwise couldn't communicate with each other can communicate with each other as if they were born right next door to each other. That is an unbelievable power for humanity that I think we almost take for granted now, but I love things like that. And so I think using technology platforms to distribute more of these kinds of things that can make people realize our commonalities a little bit less than our differences, I think is really, really important. I will also say one other area, which is that I think AI has amazing potential to detect lots of societal negative things, you know, fraud, unduly impacted groups from various regulatory policies or or other impacts. You know, how is it that we forecast the impact of climate change or wildfire or severe weather and use that to impact society positively? I think those are all within the scope of the promise of near-term AI. So let's tie this together. The excitement about the benefits to society overall of all these new technologies are going to be enabled by AI and the questions that have been raised by governments and regulatory bodies about how they should look at these new technology developments and what, if any, actions they should take. What are your thoughts on how to bring those two things together? How can governments, regulators around the world best collaborate with the AI community to make sure that they're creating effective policies and regulations that both protect citizens, but also enable the kind of innovation that's going to have these amazing benefits? Well, Jason, you have your AI call my AI and we'll make it happen, I suppose. No, but a little bit more seriously, I think there's no substitute for real human conversation in this. Right. And I think podcasts like this getting the chance for you and I to talk is an exact example of some of the ways that we can connect. And if you're listening to this podcast and you're wondering what you can do to help coordinate with Google, I urge you to reach out. I mean, I think that we are open to listening. We are trying to build a larger scale community around the regulation and policy of AI. And I think that it's early days, but getting started early so that we can incorporate everybody's perspectives and make this a better future for all and not just for the few people that happen to be consulted. I think that's very high on everybody's list fundamentally. So bringing things together so that we can have a much broader conversation and then come to an actionable set of decisions that will make this a fair and well performing innovation center for the next 10 to 20 years. That's what I'm really excited about in our opportunity to collaborate with policymakers. That's a great perspective and collaboration is the key. No question about it. We're about out of time and I am so grateful to you for sharing your perspective. I want to ask if you have any final thoughts to share with our listeners. And before you share those final thoughts, I have to wonder aloud what Shakespeare would think if he knew that you were responsible for naming perhaps the most innovative technology development of the decade after him, assuming that's where you got the bard from. But I'll leave it to you to share your final thoughts, Tris. It is in fact my inspiration. I wanted something that was language related and short and easy to spell and easy to remember. And I think the bard has been an inspiration for many and I owe a lot of my own development and education in Shakespeare. So I think it's a wonderful homage and I am hopeful that AI will be able to create things that have that level of impact and can spread that level of joy and change for society. Something I'd love to share to close out with the listeners is that I mentioned that this is early, but I think that it's easy to forget that there's a lot of development that will happen here. I like to harken back to the early days of the internet when you would go shopping on the internet and you might not even use HTTPS. You might not have a secure connection when you're buying something with your credit card. And it took us a really long time to figure out how to make it that consumers and businesses could meet online and that you could trust that that credit card that you put in to that retailer wasn't going to be misused, that there wasn't going to be fraud in there. That was a communal effort for a large group of tens of thousands of people worldwide that took a decade and I think that's the beginning of the journey that we're on. And so I hope everybody listening to this podcast will join us in making that future real. That's a great final thought and how funny to think back to the 90s when we first started shopping online and how even the credit card networks had to work with online retailers to figure out how we could use our credit cards online because you can't put a $20 bill into your computer and have it transmitted somewhere. I love that as a as a harkening back and a reminder that technology is disruptive and innovative and we find ways to make it work. Tris, your insight and analysis has been absolutely a joy to listen to today. What a great pleasure to have you on the show. Thanks so much for being with us. Absolutely, Jason. It's a pleasure talking with you and I look forward to many more. So I hope to hear from you again. Our guest today has been Tris Workington, who is the Director of Product Management at Google DeepMind. And thank you for joining us today for ITI's Download on Tech podcast. You can find future episodes of Download on Tech on our website, itic.org or wherever you listen to your favorite podcasts. I'm Jason Oxman and I look forward to connecting with you next time.