Q: How can I sell my product in Amazon’s stores?
A: Register on Amazon for the flexibility to sell one item or thousands; Choose a selling plan based on your needs—you can change plans at any time; Use Seller Central to create a product listing; Create a great product detail page by following this Quick-Start Style Guide; Promote products through Amazon Ads or other marketing channels; Fulfill orders quickly when customers make a purchase.

Q: What can I sell in Amazon’s store?
A: The possibilities are virtually limitless. What you can sell depends on the product, the product category, and the brand. Some categories are open to all sellers, some require a Professional seller account, some require approval to sell, and some include products that cannot be sold by third-party sellers.

Q: What items can’t be sold in Amazon’s store?
A: Some products may not be listed as a matter of compliance with legal or regulatory restrictions (for example, prescription drugs) or Amazon policy (for example, crime scene photos). For detailed information, visit Seller Central Help to learn more about restrictions, and how to request approval for new products in certain categories.

Q: How do beginners sell in Amazon’s store?
A: Getting started is as simple as choosing a selling plan and setting up an Amazon seller account. In order to complete your registration, make sure you have access to your bank account number and bank routing number, chargeable credit card, government-issued ID, tax information, and phone number.

Q: What can I sell in Amazon’s store as a new seller?
A: There are many opportunities for new sellers in Amazon’s store. What you can sell depends on the product, the category, and the brand. Some categories are open to all sellers while others require a Professional seller account. Certain products require approval to sell and other categories include products that cannot be sold by third-party sellers.

Q: How do I register to sell in Amazon’s store?
A: To get started as an Amazon seller, begin by choosing a selling plan and setting up an Amazon selling account. Make sure you have access to your bank account number and bank routing number, chargeable credit card, government-issued national ID, tax information, and phone number to complete your registration.

Q: Is being an Amazon seller profitable?
A: Selling in Amazon’s store can be very profitable. On average, American small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) sell more than 6,500 products per minute. In 2019, nearly 225,000 entrepreneurs worldwide eclipsed $100,000 in sales, and 15,000 U.S. businesses broke $1 million.

Q: What sells the most in Amazon’s store?
A: Top selling items on any given day may include books, baby items, electronics, kitchen supplies, outdoor gear—the list goes on. Check out Amazon Best Sellers for an hourly update with the most popular products based on sales.

Q: How do I sell books in Amazon’s store?
A: To sell books: Decide what type of books you want to sell; Create an Amazon seller account; Choose between a pay-as-you-sell Individual selling plan or a Professional selling plan, where you pay a flat monthly fee; Figure out your order fulfillment method; Set book pricing; List books; Promote the books online; Pack and ship books as they sell; Selling books online can be a lucrative side gig or a profitable business venture. Here are a few benefits of selling books online:; No sales constraints—sell as much or as little as you want. Convenience for you and the buyer—no traffic, no lines, and you're always open. Offer a wide variety of titles, authors, and genres.

Q: How do I publish a book with Amazon?
A: Hundreds of thousands of authors from around the world have self-published millions of books through Kindle Direct Publishing (KDP). Thousands of independent authors earned more than $50,000 in 2019, with more than a thousand surpassing $100,000 in royalties through KDP.

Q: How do I sell with Amazon Handmade?
A: Once you create a selling account, submit an application to join Amazon Handmade. If you are approved, you will have the ability to create a store and list products through the Professional selling plan. You will also be able to create your own custom URL, so customers can find your brand easily. For each sale, Handmade will deduct a 15% referral fee.

Q: How do I increase Amazon sales?
A: There are many ways to increase sales in Amazon’s store. Appeal to Prime members by using Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) to offer customers Prime shipping. You can also: Up your advertising game by offering promotions, coupons, or lightning deals. Register as a Brand Owner and build your own brand experience using Amazon Stores. Create A+ content to drive sales. Manage customer engagement to market directly to customers who follow your brand.

Q: How much does it cost to get the Prime badge?
A: The cost of selling in Amazon Prime depends on your selling plan, product category, fulfillment strategy, and other variables. The Amazon Prime badge is available to sellers who use Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) to handle logistics or with Seller Fulfilled Prime (SFP), a program that allows you to deliver directly to domestic Prime customers using your own logistics.

Q: How do I get the Prime badge?
A: The first step is to set up an Amazon seller account. The Amazon Prime badge is available to sellers who use Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) to handle logistics or with Seller Fulfilled Prime (SFP), a program that allows you to deliver directly to domestic Prime customers using your own logistics. Products are then eligible for Amazon Prime FREE Two-Day Shipping, FREE Shipping, and more. Qualified listings display the Prime logo, helping make your products more attractive to Prime members worldwide. Consider making your offers more attractive to millions of Amazon Prime members worldwide by using FBA. Compare options to decide which fulfillment method is right for your business.

Q: How much does it cost to ship items?
A: Shipping fees depend on whether you plan to fulfill orders yourself, use a combination of shipping options, or use Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) to handle logistics and customer service.

Q: What does FBA stand for?
A: FBA stands for Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA). With FBA, you send products to Amazon’s fulfillment centers, and we pick, pack, ship, and provide customer service for those products. Specialty FBA programs like FBA Small and Light, FBA Subscribe & Save, the FBA Dangerous Goods program, Multi-Channel Fulfillment, and FBA Export help you stay competitive and pay only for the services you use. The options are flexible, so you can find a combo to serve your business. FBA can help you scale your business and reach more customers.

Q: What is an Amazon FBA business?
A: An Amazon FBA business is a seller that uses Fulfillment by Amazon to handle logistics. Store products in Amazon’s Fulfillment Centers and we will pick, pack, ship, and provide customer service for each product.

Q: How much does FBA cost?
A: FBA is a pay-as-you-go fulfillment service. You pay for storage space and fulfillment of each sale. The cost of shipping is included in your fees, with no extra charge for Amazon Prime FREE Two-Day Shipping and free shipping on eligible orders. Selling fees and optional services may apply.

Q: How much does it cost to advertise with Amazon?
A: Amazon offers ad solutions for every marketing budget. Even $10 a day can help increase sales. Consider your budget and decide what is right for your business. You can improve product visibility and boost brand awareness through cost-per-click ads, audio and video ads, custom ads, sponsored ads, and more.

Q: What does sponsored mean in Amazon’s store?
A: Sponsored refers to advertising options for products and brands to help customers discover and engage with Amazon sellers. Sponsored Products are ads that promote individual product listings in Amazon’s store. They appear in shopping results and on product detail pages. Sponsored Products can help you reach high-intent shoppers who are actively looking for products related to their current search. Sponsored Display is a self-service advertising solution designed to help you reach the right audience for your business both on and off Amazon. You can create display advertising campaigns within minutes to reach shoppers across different selling channels. Sponsored Brands drive brand awareness with customizable cost-per-click ads that appear in Amazon shopping results. These ads feature your brand logo, a custom headline, and multiple products. They can help promote brand discovery by showing up for customers shopping for similar products.

Q: How do I get a sponsored ad in Amazon’s store?
A: Here’s how to get a sponsored ad in Amazon’s store: Set up an Amazon seller account. A Professional selling account is required for sponsored ads. Create a campaign. Choose how much you want to spend for a click and set a budget. Track impressions, clicks, click-through rates, new-to-brand customers, store traffic, advertising spend, and more. Boost your visibility, reach more shoppers, and increase sales through Amazon sponsored ads.

Q: How do I advertise with Amazon?
A: To advertise in Amazon’s store, create a seller account and then build your campaign. Amazon ads are designed for everyone, meaning you don't need advertising experience to launch a campaign. You can create and launch an advertising campaign in as little as five minutes with ad solutions for every budget. In some cases, a Professional selling account may be required. Improve product visibility and boost brand awareness through pay-per-click ads, audio and video ads, custom ads, sponsored ads, and more.

Q: What’s an Amazon storefront?
A: Amazon Stores and Amazon Storefront mean different things and support your brand in different ways: With Amazon Stores, you can give customers an immersive shopping experience at no additional cost to you. Create and customize a dedicated brand destination to showcase your brand with your own dedicated Amazon.com web address. Learn more about building an Amazon Store featuring your brand. Amazon Storefront is a hand-picked destination showcasing top products from Amazon sellers. Storefronts opened in 2018 to empower small companies and provide a curated destination to shop exclusively from American small- and medium-sized businesses.

Q: How do I create an Amazon store?
A: The Amazon Store builder allows you to create your own branded look and feel in Amazon’s store. Here’s how: Create a Professional seller account. Enroll in Amazon Brand Registry to unlock a suite of tools designed to help you build and protect your brand. Once you’ve set up your Store, Amazon offers resources to help you grow and scale.

Q: What is an Amazon Private Brand?
A: Amazon Accelerator enables manufacturers to launch brands and innovative products exclusively in Amazon’s store, providing a path to become an Amazon Private Brand or Private Label supplier. Suppliers can create and trademark their own Amazon-exclusive brand which will remain exclusive to Amazon. The benefits include an opportunity to test new products and get quick feedback, potential entry into Amazon Private Brands, brand protection, marketing services, onboarding support, insights on trends, and analytics tools. Learn more about Amazon Accelerator benefits and policies. From specialty foods and fashion items to baby care and nutrition, see featured categories for examples of Amazon’s private and select exclusive brands.
